(piano music)
(uplifting music)
- [Emilia] I have to
tell you something.
It's actually from my diary
called Emilia's Super
Fantastic Diary.
And you really shouldn't tell
your diary stuff to anyone,
but since I'm Emilia, I
guess I can tell you this.
It all happened near my home,
the cove, and the
butter factory,
and the school
and Simon's house.
It was really strange and scary.
As a story at midnight, it
was totally dark and glum.
My mom always says
I shouldn't be too,
what's that word?
Negative.
But sometimes, I just
have to be a bit negative.
(dramatic fast-paced music)
It all started when our
biology teacher went fishing
at midnight.
During the day, he's
at school with us.
So he has to fish at night.
(uplifting music)
(ship horn blares)
(suspenseful music)
- Hullaballoo.
- Let's go get him.
C'mon, c'mon, hush, hush.
- Hey, what, what,
what is happening?
What, hey, hey.
What, hey, hey, hey,
hey, help, help, help.
What?
Help.
(fish speak gibberish)
(splash)
(suspenseful music)
(teacher pants)
(fish laugh)
(guinea-pig squeaks)
(music intensifies)
- Well hello, did
you run away again?
- [Emilia] Actually,
it all started
when this pet store
opened near us.
They used to sell house plants.
I'm not interested
in house plants.
Or maybe I would be, if I
was a plant, like a cactus.
But animals are a
different story.
I always stopped by the window
and I passed by it very often
as it's on my way to--
(school bell rings)
oh no, school!
Not again!
Thanks.
(church bell rings)
(children cheer)
See you guys.
(owl hoots)
Oh, hey little guy.
(church bell rings)
(owl hoots)
(train dings)
(police siren wails)
- Hey, hey, you two boys!
Stop there, stop
what you're doing!
- It's your principal
speaking, the prince, yeehaw!
And a few pieces of information.
When washing your
hands, remember,
one piece of paper per hand.
I mean, two pieces
of paper per hand.
No, one piece of paper per
pair of hands (laughs).
Yeehaw!
Oh and health alert, be
aware, pin worms, diarrhea
and parasites,
so wash your hands and no
rubbing heads together.
We have lice.
Yahoo, yeehaw!
(door dings)
- Morning Simon.
- You're not the
only one that's late.
(dramatic rock music)
- Hey there, you guys remembered
to wipe your filthy feet
outside, right?
- Yeah.
- Good.
Seaweed for Simon.
Like your breakfast?
- Open up wide, baby.
- This isn't
seaweed, it's clover.
- Today we'll discuss the
old enemies of our waters.
Any guesses?
What could that be?
What bacteria could it be?
Not the yellow bacteria,
not the magenta.
Come on kids, you
need to participate.
Success in life
- [Emilia] Simon
is my best friend.
A lot of kids think he's strange
but his dad is the strange one.
He has a seaweed
stand on the beach.
Simon often has seaweed as a
snack because it's healthy.
Greasy Antero bullies him.
Every morning, Greasy Antero
styles his hair with butter.
They have a lot of it, as his
dad owns the butter factory.
And everyday, he bullies Simon.
- Who knows the answer?
The clock is ticking.
And the correct answer
is Cyanobacteria, yes,
and where do we have it?
(suspenseful music)
Yes, in the Baltic Sea
and what does it cause?
Good, eutrophication
and what does it kill?
The organisms.
(kids laugh)
Boy, I'm on a roll today.
- What are you doing Simon?
- [Teacher] And what
causes the pollution then?
- You're idiots.
- Idiots, that's correct.
Idiots pollute the ocean.
Well done Simon, our weed
and algae specialist.
But pick up the
pencils you dropped.
Yes, let's keep this classroom
and the nature clean.
- Dad and I were thinking
of buying a telescope.
But not a big one,
it's not practical.
It would be too
heavy when traveling.
- What're you looking at?
- Isn't it cute?
(girls laugh)
(sad music)
- Bye.
- Look at what Kiersha
shared with everyone.
Greasy got a pool
for his birthday.
Cool, right?
- Pool slides are great.
- Yeah, I always go on them.
- My dad can't even handle
a small slide though.
(Emilia laughs)
- What's that noise?
- I don't know, it
only used to stink,
now there's that noise.
- Hi there, I made this basic
weed and moss based porridge.
There you go.
If you want to
make it more meaty,
sprinkle some animal
plankton on top.
Oh, Emilia, are you hungry?
We've got dessert as well.
You can make a nice
jam from a jellyfish.
Take a look (laughs).
Oh, don't worry.
It's not from this cove, have
to clean it seaweed elsewhere.
Don't know how long I
can keep this stand open,
the trees are grain.
Here you go.
- Sorry, but I'm
not really hungry
and my moms waiting for me.
- [Emilia's Mom] Emilia!
- Hey mom!
- Emilia, I've got
a surprise for you!
Simon, come along with us.
(train rings)
- What kind of fur
ball do you want?
- Seriously mom?
I get one finally?
- Yes sweetie.
You finally get one.
- Yes!
- Hey, hey, be careful, okay.
Some animals have
been on the run.
They can get a little
tricky sometimes.
A rare beetle is still missing.
- [Emilia's Mom]
Choose carefully.
- I know mom, I know.
(pig oinks)
- A guinea pig?
Kind of boring.
- But I've always
wanted a guinea pig.
- Let's look at the
other critters as well.
- Like a fish.
(snake hisses)
- Aw, aw.
You're so cute.
(laughs)
Ow, hey, why did you do that?
- Hey mom, this guinea pi--
- Don't tell her.
If you tell her it bit you,
she won't buy it for you.
You won't get it.
- Emilia, what about
the guinea pig?
- This guinea pig is so cute.
- I'll give you a discount
since this is a strange one.
Keeps it's own company,
doesn't like baths,
walks it's own path.
- Perfect, yes, we'll take it.
- Come to the register.
- [Emilia's Mom] What does
a fur ball like that need?
- Food, cage, some
love and affection.
You have some kind of
preferred customer card
or rewards points?
Gold, silver, copperton?
- Just the debit card.
I hope you find your beetle.
- [Store Clerk] We always
find them somewhere.
They're always crawling
around somewhere, I just--
(crunch)
It's just crisp bread
for the bunnies.
You're gonna need
a water bottle too.
- Guinea pigs can't
run in wheels.
- But this little
guy can do anything.
What about fluffy?
Butterball?
Pumpkin?
- How about Pavarotti?
Is it a boy or a girl?
- Mom?
- Hm?
- Is this a boy or a girl?
- Oh, I forgot to ask.
(guinea pig squeaks)
Don't know.
- It has to be a
really cute name.
- Anita Hirvonen?
- There's no telling
with these things.
- Duster?
- Hey look.
I think it's a sign, maybe
it wants to be Halonen.
- Or, Tarja, the pig.
- Guinea pig Halonen.
It's guinea pig Halonen.
- [Simon] Well I
gotta go home now.
- Bye Simon.
- [Emilia] I got the world's
cutest guinea pig today.
Her eyes look like
two giant balls.
She has lovely little bug teeth.
(knocks)
- Snacks are ready
in the kitchen.
- I'll be right down.
She's like one fluffy
ball, all rolled in and--
- Come on, kiddo.
The sandwiches are getting cold.
- Okay, I'm coming.
Mom's boyfriend Pertti
gets on my nerves.
Why are sandwiches so important?
Why does he eat all the time?
- All right Em, mom's waiting.
Let's get moving.
- Dad, what're you doing here?
- Came to eat, okay?
And say hi to you.
- Not a moments peace here.
But it's nice that dad comes
over to see us for dinner.
Mom and dad got divorced
when I was eight.
They're friends, even
though dad has a new home.
It's peaceful at dads but boring
because he's been writing
his book for five years now.
He just writes and
writes and writes.
I like living her
with mom and Pertti.
No peace here but it's
cleaner and it smells nicer.
- I see Pertti has his
brewery going again.
- At the resort next week,
you'll get the best beer
this side of the Baltic.
- [Emilia's Dad] How was
your summer vacation?
- Vacation?
That's funny, I wish I could
go away for even a weekend.
A few days at the spa.
What happened to your finger?
- Uh, no.
The guinea pig, her
cage, I got scratched.
- Oh no, they might have
to chop off your finger.
- Well it needs
to be disinfected.
- Well, I better get going.
Bye sweetie.
- Bye dad.
Mom is a nurse and she
knows about these things.
- [Emilia's Dad] Ah,
this Uber's expensive.
- [Emilia] She always
has a first aid kit.
You never know if a
guinea pig will bite.
But mom's boyfriend Pertti,
he's not exactly a genius.
He eats all the time.
He's from Turku and thinks
that you don't get fat.
Well, her business, not mine.
- Goodnight little one.
(thunder rumbles)
(suspenseful music)
(car engine rumbles)
(car horn blares)
- [Guinea Pig] Hello,
wakey wakey, anybody home?
- Who's there?
- [Guinea Pig] It's me.
- What?
- Can I get a double
cheeseburger with
an order of fries
and a milkshake?
Nah, it was a joke.
Guinea pig humor, you know?
Hop in.
C'mon get in.
- I don't think so, go away.
I know you're not
real, I'm dreaming.
- Yep, it's a dream.
Come on now and
put on a sweater.
It's chilly out here.
- Well it's just a dream.
(suspenseful music)
- [Dispatch] There's
a situation in Norway,
a (mumbles) stuck in a
drain, code seven six one.
- Sorry dispatch, I'm in the
middle of a two four five.
- [Dispatch] Roger that.
We got a cow stuck
in a house in Mexico.
He can't get out the
doors or the windows.
(car beeps)
(rocket blast off)
- [Emilia] Hey, take it easy.
I'm gonna wake up.
- Aren't we a nervous one?
Two seven four, ETA Mexico,
two hours 30 minutes.
Actually more like,
say, two and 40,
I gotta go grab grub first.
Over and out.
- Hey you, where are we going?
- What did you say?
- Where are we going?
- Going to Lotti.
- Why Lotti?
- Tell me about it,
I wanted to go to the
ski resort in Germany.
- [Dispatch] Two seven four,
how the weather
looking up there?
- We got some snow coming down.
Hey backseat, turbulence ahead.
(car beeps)
(inspirational music)
- [Dispatch] We got
another case of a puffin
stuck in Iceland.
- Two seven four, free tomorrow.
Over and out.
- [Dispatch]
Alrighty, roger that.
- Over and out.
- [Dispatch] You
already said that.
- Oh, sorry.
Over and out.
- [Dispatch] You don't have
to, you already said it.
- Okay, nevermind.
Over and out.
- Why are we here?
- (laughs) You'll soon see.
Okay little missy,
this is your exit.
(Emilia screams)
(giant guinea pig grunts)
- Help me.
- (laughs) Hello Emilia,
it was quite a ride.
You did well on that slope.
Could've stuck the
landing a bit better.
- What?
(camera clicks)
- Ah, wait.
I'll upload this to the net.
Longest selfie stick in
all of Finland (laughs).
- Who are you?
What are you?
- I'm the guinea pig, the
giant guinea pig, you know.
Open your mouth, come on.
Ah (laughs).
How does that feel?
- How does what feel?
- I'm guessing a guinea pig
bit your finger today, right?
- Yeah.
- It was a sign, you know.
- What is this?
- You've been chosen to be
super fur ball, quite an honor,
you know?
- Who exactly chose me?
- Aw, the guinea pigs, not
me, but the little ones.
I just handle the PR and
supervise the actions
of the super fur balls.
Every time you take a sip
from the guinea pig
Halonen's bottle,
you turn into super fur ball.
- So cool!
(giant guinea pig laughs)
- Yeah, super powers.
Hey, can I kick Greasy's butt?
- No, you can't
abuse your powers.
You cannot abuse your powers.
Your mission is more
important than you think.
A school of herrings
are riding in the cove,
breaking everything.
You have to calm
down the herrings.
(Emilia coughs)
Hm, cool, you're beginning
to get into your guinea pig
groove now.
- Ah, horrible teeth.
(camera clicks)
(alarm rings)
Hey, Mr. Halonen, I had the
strangest dream last night.
(guinea pig squeaks)
- I see you have baseball today.
That's fun, right?
- It sucks.
- Take your water
bottle with you.
It's, how do you kids say?
Tots hots.
- Nobody says that mom.
- Uh, seriously.
I look fine.
Don't forget the water bottle.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
- Bye!
- Bye bye.
(herrings chanting)
Tots bad.
(playful music)
Where is it?
Ugh.
Where is my shoe?
- Today we're gonna
be playing baseball
or as I like to
call it, crazy ball.
We're gonna stick to the basics
and have some fun.
(dog barking)
- [Emilia] I hate baseball.
It's the most boring sport ever.
The PE teacher is so
crazy about sports.
She eats a ton of
cottage cheese.
- Today the teams will
be selected by Antoro.
- [Emilia] It's dangerous to
eat that much cottage cheese.
- [PE Teacher] And Emilia.
- Well gee wiz.
Let's go.
Okay, the best ones here
with me, lose with Emilia.
Done.
- One at a time Anturo.
Emilia, go ahead.
- Kisika.
- I'll take Peter, or
better known as Farty.
(kids laugh)
- [Emilia] I like to
have Simon on my team
but he always strikes out.
Why do I have to
choose the teams?
I don't want to.
If I choose him, we'll lose
and everyone will blame me.
- Leslie.
Of course she'll take
Simon, they're dating.
- [Farty] Aw, cute couple.
- No we're not.
- Simon, Emilia's
team wants you.
- I'll take the dog.
- Hey, hey, I don't want Simon.
Let's pick new teams.
- [Kid] Yeah, we
don't want Simon.
All he does is strike out.
- [Emilia] This is
really horrible.
(sad music)
(whistle blows)
- [PE Teacher] Strike three.
- Thanks four eyes.
You missed 15.
Such a lame loser.
- Yo loser.
- [Emilia] Oh boy, this
is never gonna end.
(whistle blows)
- This is it, kids,
the last inning.
- Simon, go to the out field
and stay out of the way, 'kay?
- Go as far as you can.
(whistle blows)
- [Greasy] Simon, catch it.
- Next batter.
(whistle blows)
Mikey, step up.
Emilia, you're next.
(whistle blows)
Second out.
- [Emilia] Only the second?
Help.
Do I have to?
- All right, let's
get a move on.
I'm not missing lunch today.
- If you miss, you'll lose.
Sorry, when you
miss, you'll lose.
- Hey, I need to
ask you something.
(phone chimes)
(PE teacher claps)
- (laughs) What
happened to your face?
- [PE Teacher] Quit
talking and play some ball.
(playful music)
- Oh boy, this is
really exciting.
- The last and final strike
and then we can get a move
on to that chicken casserole.
Come on kids, let's
get it moving.
- You'll lose even though
we had Simon on our team.
(loud strike)
- Like, yay.
- That's a foul, that's
clearly a foul ball.
- That's right, Emilia's
last hit was a foul ball.
It was the third and last
out of Emilia's team.
(whistle blows)
Chicken casserole,
this way, please.
(sad music)
- That was some hit,
very interesting.
- Yeah, where did the ball go?
(upbeat music)
(splash)
(glass shatters)
(wind blows)
(rumbling)
(suspenseful music)
- It's from the
elementary school.
- Ugh, the sound barrier
broke some windows.
- Here too?
All over the school and
we're over the budget.
Come in kitchen,
Prince one calling.
Cancel the meatballs tomorrow,
just mashed potatoes.
Ricky, potatoes only.
- Simon, do superpowers exist?
- No, why are you asking?
- I can't really tell you.
Hi.
- Hi.
Listen, I gotta
ask you something.
We've all been wondering.
Are you two together?
- What do you mean, us two?
- Well, you and Simon.
- No way.
- Poor Simon, everyone
thinks he's a freak.
- I heard that all he
eats at home is seaweed.
(girls laugh)
Can you imagine?
- I guess he's kind
of, kind of, different.
(girls laugh)
Bye.
- Bye.
(sad music)
- [Newsman] We're not sure
- [Pertti] Hey.
about the situation at the cove.
- [Pertti] Hi babe.
- Hey.
- [Newsman] Coming in overnight
but we do know
- Hi there boo boo.
- [Newsman] property
has been damaged
and several boats
have been vandalized
and released from their anchors.
- Hey, Simon's dad is on
the news.
- [Newsman] We have one more
(mumbles) standing by.
Sir, can you let us know
what's happening today?
- No vandalism before but
only the butter factory
polluting the algae, reeds
and other vegetable goodies
from the sea.
Horsetail and salt marsh
have disappeared, well,
all together.
- [Newsman] The police have
no clues of the perpetrators.
- Those punks should be
sent to juvenile hall.
- You don't know that, they
could be adults as well.
- Why would an adult
do something so stupid?
- Why would an adult wear a bib?
- Well, cleanliness
matters, dear.
- [Newsman] The
situation is underlined
by an explosion
beneath the surface.
The police are investigating
however, Meteorological
Institute explained
(voice drowns out by Pertti)
- Someone just hit a
baseball into the water.
- [Newsman] Up next,
financial news.
(suspenseful music)
(guinea pig squeaks)
(uplifting music)
- Super fur ball.
It's super fur ball.
No going.
Are you deaf?
Wait up super fur ball.
(herring grunts)
Super fur ball.
(mumbles) wait.
I'm so tired (mumbles).
Down here, (mumbles).
I know you're the
super fur ball.
- What are you?
- What am I?
Blazing Belinis.
- You talk?
- Yes, though they keep saying
herrings are a quiet bunch.
- Is this kind of a joke?
- Niet.
We need your help,
super fur ball.
You know this cove near here
in the Baltic Sea, yeah?
- Yes of course.
It was on the news.
- The young herrings are so mad.
Soon something
terrible will happen.
- Is it you herrings
that are making the mess?
- Oh look, she's talking to
her friends in the sewer.
- So, it's time for,
what is it time for?
Will they use their
first lifeline?
It's ask the teacher or me.
Yes, they're using it.
The correct answer.
Biology projects
about the Baltic Sea.
And how do they go about it?
Very lazy hands here today.
You'll do it in pairs.
In a moment, we'll be
choosing project partners.
Does everyone understand?
Okay, now.
Do we have anyone
without a partner?
Hm?
Ah, Emilia and Simon.
- Aw, look at the cute couple.
Will it be a church wedding?
- I'll do mine alone.
- I see.
So, Simon has to
do his alone too?
Is that okay?
Fine.
Emilia, take water systems
and Simon, islands.
- Teacher.
- Yes Emilia?
- What do herrings need?
- Well, that's for you to
find out on this project.
- I kinda need to
know right now.
What do herrings need the most?
- Well I guess,
like all other fish,
(phone beeps)
clean water most of all.
And what have we said about
messaging during lessons?
(camera clicks)
(students laugh)
Where is our
degenerate going now?
I'll give you a hint, lots of
fresh air, he knows it well.
Go outside and take a lap.
- Hey, look at that.
Oh my god, let's take a picture.
(kids laugh)
(sad music)
- Here comes the aardvark.
- Oh my god.
- Who did this artwork?
If we can't find
the guilty party
then everyone will clean.
Anturo?
- It was her.
- No no.
- Emilia.
- Of course it was
Emilia, we saw her.
- Yeah, we saw her.
- Well if Emilia won't confess
then it's gonna be altogether.
- Thanks a lot Emilia.
- Yeah Emilia, some
friend you are.
- Teacher, it was me.
- One, two, three, bang.
There we have it.
Simon will wash it.
Chop, chop.
It's okay to show your feelings,
just not to trash your school.
- Why did you do that?
- They bully me already and
we may have to move anyway.
- What, why?
- No more clients at the cove.
The whole place is
polluted and vandalized.
- No way, where to?
- Why do you care anyhow?
- Am I going crazy?
Herrings are asking for my help.
(guinea pig squeaks)
Or am I crazy already?
I'm talking to a guinea pig.
(guinea pig squeaks)
(suspenseful music)
- Emilia and I are
going to the pool first.
Where are the towels?
(guinea pig squeaks)
(inspirational music)
(Emilia screams)
- Oh no.
More horrible than I remember.
Of all superheroes, why do
I have to be guinea pig
with these teeth?
Sorry, nothing personal.
- Emilia, it's pool time.
- No, don't come in.
- Hey, is everything
okay in there?
- [Emilia] Everything's fine.
I'm doing my homework.
(Emilia gasps)
(Emilia screams)
- Emilia?
Are you all right?
Is everything okay?
Come on, (mumbles).
- No, no, no.
I don't have time.
- What do you mean?
Emilia.
Come on, it's time to relax.
Emilia, where did
you fly off to now?
Seriously Emilia,
no joking around.
Emilia.
(toilet flushes)
What on earth are you doing?
Emilia what's going
on, are you okay?
There you are.
What're you doing?
- Biology.
- I see you bought
the teeth and ears.
Cute.
Wear them for the carnival.
(Emilia sighs)
- Well then.
I guess I'm super fur ball now.
I can handle those herrings
and Simon doesn't have to move.
It's a bit lame
to be a guinea pig
but still, I'm a super hero.
But first, I need to
work on my flying skills.
(inspirational music)
(Emilia grunts)
- Hi.
- Hi, so if you could fly,
how would you fly straight?
- Birds have tails,
witches have a broom
and superman has a cape.
- [Simon's Dad] Aha!
- Why?
- And if you only have a scarf?
- Why only a scarf?
- I can't tell you
right now, bye.
- Look at this.
It was all good yesterday.
(Emilia screams)
(inspirational music)
- A running wheel.
(people scream)
Boo.
(laughs)
Wee!
(Emilia coughs)
Sorry!
The herrings.
Woo-hoo!
(phone rings)
Hi there mom.
I'm at, no we're
not on the computer.
The homework is almost done.
Bye.
Woo-hoo!
(inspirational music)
(splash)
It's cold, it's cold,
it's really really cold.
All right, operation herring.
Hello?
- Oh you made it,
nice to see you.
- Sorry for not
getting you then.
I couldn't figure out
a talking herring.
I thought I was going, uh,
you wanted to talk to me?
- Yes, we have a gulf
shore catastrophe.
(herrings chatter)
Quiet (mumbles), go do
some herrings things,
you (mumbles).
(herrings chatter)
- Uh, what's that gross stuff?
- Oh, that, all the
time, that dura lock pipe
keeps spewing poison.
It's very difficult
for us herrings.
Usually we're easy
going, (mumbles)
but this is what poison
does to herrings.
We become mean and angry.
(mumbles) look.
That unsuspecting
school of perches
moved here a few weeks ago.
We used to be like that,
swimming happily
into one direction.
But now all of that is
(speaks foreign language).
The whole gang is ocean crazy.
- Couldn't you find
another part of the ocean?
- The perches have
been all over the sea.
Even worse pollution everywhere.
We have to end the poison
from entering our gills.
You have to remember,
a poisoned herring
is an angry herring.
An old saying in the sea.
When a rowboat comes,
it's the worst.
It's a halloballu.
(herrings scream)
- So, how can I help you guys?
- We have to get out of here.
Anywhere.
(playful music)
(Emilia gasps in fear)
(Pertti sniffs)
- Hm, mm.
(Emilia gasps)
I almost forgot dessert.
Emilia?
- Yes?
- Did you finish the cake?
I was really looking
forward to eating that.
Oh no, there it is.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
(Emilia sighs in relief)
(Emilia grunts)
- Oh no, I look so terrib--
terrific, just terrific.
If the herrings won't calm down,
they'll ruin everything and
Simon will have to move.
(guinea pig squeaks)
I have to do something.
(sad music)
(playful music)
- Swim in here.
- No (mumbles), no
one to fight with.
(herrings chatter)
- What is that smell?
- How's the temperature?
- Ocean, perfect, yes.
- Goodnight and no hullaballoo.
- (herrings in unison)
No, no, no, no.
(herrings sigh in relief)
- Mission accomplished fur ball.
(Emilia's mom yawns)
(Emilia's mom screams)
- What are those?
- They're herrings ma.
- Pertti, come here.
- Oh wow, fish.
- They're called herrings.
- Why are they in our bathtub?
- Well, I have this
biology project
and I have to study the growth
and behavior of herrings.
- Oh, they look so good.
You should fry them.
- No, you're not
gonna fry them, okay?
- Crab and cream cheese
filling sounds so good.
Oh and instead of rye flour,
bread them with
crisp bread crumbs.
Do we have crispy bread?
- No frying them
and no crispy bread.
- Two days and then
the bathtub is empty.
- But mom, do you want
me to fail my project?
I won't get in to high
school or university
and then I'll end
up on the streets.
- Two days, okay?
End of discussion.
- [Herring] Oh, this
is so much better.
- [Pertti] Babe, I can't
find the crispy bread.
- [Emilia's Mom]
Are you serious?
We are not frying
anything from the bathtub.
- Thank you Emilia.
We feel so much
better and cleaner.
- What do you
herrings like to eat?
Porridge?
- No
- Cereal?
- Uh-uh (in disagreement).
- Or maybe yogurt?
- Yuck.
I am wondering if you have...
- Dad always has
animal plankton.
- Thank you.
- What do you need it for?
- It's just something, so
you don't have to move.
- What do you mean?
Fine, don't tell me.
- What's this?
You're bringing
algae to school now?
- You can't bring it to school.
- It's not algae, it's plankton.
Now give it back.
- Simon, why did you do that?
- Shame on you Simon.
- Who made this mess out here?
Who did it?
Is it true?
Was it him?
- Greasy always win.
He can do anything and
he's everyone's favorite.
He always has cool stuff.
His dad owns the butter
factory down by the cove.
He buys weird stuff
for the school.
He's probably the
richest man in town,
arranges all kinds of events.
(rock music)
- [Newsman] Good
news from the Baltic.
The vandalism at
the cove has ended.
Although the police did
not find the perpetrator,
- Are the herrings still
swimming around in our bathtub?
- Well, I have no other
place to put them.
I don't know what to do.
- Take them wherever you want,
the tub must be
empty in the morning.
- Ta-da!
Tickets to a spa.
- A spa?
Are you serious?
- Yeah, I won a raffle at work.
Five tickets, can
you believe it?
- I'm so excited!
Emilia, we have
two extra tickets.
Would you like to
ask Simon to go?
(phone rings)
- He's not even
answering my phone calls.
I'm gonna ask someone else.
Dad has a new
girlfriend, Annelilla.
I call her cotton
swab Annelilla.
Dad doesn't like the name and
doesn't get the reference.
- Hi Emmy, hey (laughs).
Ah, hi.
- Hey, you made it.
- Oh, yeah.
- Hey, good to see ya!
- Okay, what's going on
with all the hugging?
So unnatural, so uncivilized.
- All right, let's go swimming.
- Wait, hold on.
I left something in there.
- What?
Just remember to lock.
- There's a lot of
human plankton here.
On TV, I saw small fish eat
dry skin from peoples feet.
- Sounds delicious.
Who's hungry?
Everyone, let's go, let's
go, it's time to eat.
(herrings chattering)
Chlorine, no, chlorine is
the worst poison for us.
We go totally
crazy, hullaballoo.
Ah, everyone back,
everyone back.
This is no good, this
is no good at all.
Everyone, ah!
(everyone screaming)
- Get back into the barrel now!
Hey, get back now.
- Emilia!
(herrings screaming)
- Well, we don't want to
shut out any customers
but herrings don't
tolerate chlorine.
- But they could get used to it.
- If we sell people
a luxury spa weekend,
they don't want to be
swimming in fish soup,
now do they?
- But couldn't you maybe
remove the chlorine?
- We are going home now.
So sorry about this.
- That's fine.
And you're welcome
back any other time.
Of course, without the herrings.
- [Man] Sorry ma'am, the
sauna's full of scales.
- Yeah.
And one more thing, just a tip,
children need to
have boundaries.
- How come I can't
trust you to behave?
(sad music)
- Hey Em, cheer up.
Mom was just embarrassed
because of the herring fiasco.
- But she was so angry.
- She only gets mad
because she loves you.
- Mom must have loved you a lot.
- Why?
Why do you say that?
- She was always so mad at you.
- (laughs) She
had other reasons.
- Grownups are so weird.
- That's true, you
can't understand them.
There is one thing about mom.
- Simon, I tried calling you.
- Sorry, I must've missed it.
- What do you have in there?
You can't bring
that in to school.
- It's my biology project.
- Project?
(herrings chattering)
What is in there?
Get that thing away right now
or the janitor
will take it away.
Garry?
(herring sighs)
- I'm sorry but I can't
think of another way.
I have to take you
back, do you understand?
- Yeah, big herring, not
a cry baby (mumbles).
(herring cries)
(herring speaks in
foreign language)
- I'm so sorry, but what
else could I have done?
- Emilia, you did
everything you could.
You tried to help, thank you.
We have to solve
this problem alone.
There might be a
big hullaballoo.
- This is not cool at all.
Simon won't take my calls.
He doesn't even sit
with me at lunch.
- Have some more.
You're so skinny, the
winds gonna break you.
Where's Simon?
Now there's a skinny kid.
- [Emilia] Kitchen
Donna is right.
Simon should eat
something, he's too thin.
Once, Simon was
waiting for a bus
and a huge gust of
wind swept him up.
It flew him against
the window in Ikea
and he got stuck there.
The police came
over to detach Simon
but it wasn't easy.
Simon got so flat, it
was hard to stand him up.
All kinds of cool stuff
keep happening with Simon.
- Listen, I gotta ask this.
What's the hold up here?
(sad music)
- What happened to you Emilia?
- Nothing.
- Nothing?
Maybe telling me would help?
- The water is so
dirty in the cove
that Simon's dad has
to close their stand,
then Simon will move away.
- I'm sorry honey.
- It doesn't matter anyway.
He doesn't want to
be my friend anymore.
- Even if Simon does move away,
you'll still be best
friends, sweetie.
That's what counts.
And listen, it's not
too late to make up
before he moves away.
A good friend will forgive.
Even dad and I
don't fight anymore.
- You're right mom, I'll
talk to him tomorrow
and apologize.
- That's good.
- Oh, and dad told me
something about you.
(uplifting music)
- And you're the best
daughter in the world.
- [Emilia] Maybe
we've grown apart
like they say in Cotton
Swab Annelilla's magazines.
How do you grow apart?
Why can't everybody
just be friends?
Why are some more
embarrassing than others?
Oh no, if Simon has to move away
then we'll really grow apart.
- Hey, my night shift
is starting soon.
- [Newsman] And lastly,
an update on one of
our ongoing stories.
The situation at the Baltic
Bay is heating up again.
Vandalism in the
bay of East Helsinki
has returned with a vengeance.
Last night, a food
stand disappeared.
- What in the world?
- [Newsman] The police
have no suspects.
- We don't have any suspects,
this is a total mystery.
- Yeah, we're on
our way to school.
- And then the fish pushed
the stand into the water.
- So many fish.
- I lost everything.
Reed porridge, reed
patties, plankton bars.
What will I sell my customers?
What will we eat?
(herrings grunt)
- [Emilia] Where
on earth is Simon?
He's an hour late.
He's never late
when we have a test.
- [Newsman] The city
is being vandalized,
the water supply
system is broken.
It's difficult to
investigate, the sea is busy
under the surface but the
divers don't dare go in.
- We're closely (cuts out).
- Hey it's my dad,
look, he's on TV.
Yeah dad, you're the man.
- It's totally absurd to
claim that our butter factory
has anything to do with
the problems in the bay.
- [Woman] Well this
is very strange,
I've lived here all my life and
- What're you doing?
Where's Simon?
- Simon is not coming
in to school today,
he's moving away.
- No, he can't.
I didn't have time to
apologize or even talk to him.
Hey.
Hey, I know what
causes all this.
- You do, really?
Give me names.
- The power is gone because
the herrings have done
something under the sea.
(laughs)
- Ah, I see.
Please explain in more detail.
- The herrings are getting sick
because poison is
pouring into the cove.
They're going totally crazy.
- We need an extra broadcast
and an emergency bulletin.
We need the radio back on.
Come on, cloppity-clop,
hoppity-hop.
Come on.
I keep a spare
generator for emergency.
The radio will never die.
Yeehaw!
Our guest today, on
our Prince One radio,
is little Emelia
Neeman, with hot news
about our power outage.
Go ahead Emilia.
- Yes, the power is off
because the herrings are--
- Yeehaw, talk about herrings,
let's listen to some
herring music now.
(herring music plays)
Emilia, you need to speak up
because the generators, uh.
- Hullaballoo, hullaballoo,
hullaballoo, hullaballoo
hullaballoo, hullaballoo,
hullaballoo, hullaballoo.
(people scream)
(herrings chanting
hullaballoo in unison)
(playful music)
(sad music)
- Simon?
Simon?
- Can I help you with something?
- Where's Simon?
- Previous tenants?
They left already.
- No.
They left so suddenly.
This can't be happening.
(sniffs) I didn't even get
a chance to say goodbye.
We were fighting the last
few days, he was mad at me.
It was all my fault.
- What was all your fault?
- Simon!
I thought you had left already.
- We left some dry algae
behind, we came back to get it.
- You can't move away, please.
- Found it.
- Hurry.
Let's get going.
- Simon, I know what's
causing all these problems
but it's so strange, you're
not gonna believe me.
- Try me.
- Okay.
So a school of
herrings from the cove
came to shore to attack people.
Environmental toxins
mess with their heads.
We should get them to safety.
The herrings.
- Why didn't you say so?
It's not the first time.
Environmental toxins
cause behavioral problems.
There are many pipes
on that sea floor,
like the one from
the butter factory
and the main electricity line.
That's probably what's
causing the problems.
- The herrings are
eating away at that line.
Soon, they'll break everything.
We have to save that cove.
- (sighs) My dad tried already.
- We need to calm down
those herrings right away.
I'll handle the herrings
so your dad can
open his stand again
and you guys won't have to move.
(playful music)
What can I do?
How do I calm down
all the herrings?
(Emilia grunts)
Why do I always fail?
- Emilia, you are
a super fur ball.
Not everyone gets that honor.
- What can I do as a guinea
pig or whatever it is
that I turn into?
I don't want to be
a mega fat fur ball
with gigantic buck teeth.
I won't do it.
- The appearance
is no coincidence.
Music please.
(music plays)
Guinea pigs are cute,
chubby and furry
so that they can
get close to people,
especially close to children.
And you were not made
super fur ball by mistake.
You are a resourceful child
with a vivid imagination
and you need to learn
how to be brave.
Emilia, if you're good
as plain old Emilia,
you're good as super fur ball.
Be brave and say the most
beautiful words out loud,
"I am guinea pig,
super fur ball".
- I am a fur ball,
a super fur ball.
I am a fur ball,
a super fur ball
and I need that water bottle
to be a super fur ball.
Mom, where's guinea
pig Halonen's bottle?
Where's that bottle?
- In the dishwasher.
- Why is it in there?
- It wasn't clean then
the power went out.
- Mom, open it.
- We can't open it mid cycle.
We need to wait for the power.
- There will be no power
if I don't get that bottle
out of there.
- Don't be silly, trust
me, you can't open it.
- What's with all this noise?
- For some reason, Emilia is
worried about the cleanliness
of our dishes.
- I need to get that bottle out.
- What bottle?
- It's Halonen's
bottle in there.
- You can't be shouting like
this in an apartment building.
- You can't open it mid cycle.
- All right, all right.
- All the water will come out.
- I know what I'm doing, let
me show you how it's done.
- Thanks Pertti,
you're the best.
(inspirational music)
- Woops.
- Here we go.
(sirens blare)
(walkie talk voice)
(phone rings)
- This is not a good time.
- Emilia, where are you?
Did you do your homework?
- Yes, well, almost.
- All right, well
don't be too late
and don't go near the cove.
There's something unsafe
happening down there, okay?
- No, of course not mom.
Bye, gotta go!
- Make some space,
make some space.
Clear the area, divers
are coming up now.
- I'm not going back in.
- No, no, no.
The herrings are going
crazy down there.
- Stop messing
around with the nets,
we need stronger equipment.
- I'll go in.
The sea is my friend, the
sea won't harm a friend.
- No civilians
inside the perimeter.
Get him out of here.
(boat engine rumbles)
- Bite, bite as hard as you can,
bite like you've
never bit before.
- Herrings, I come in peace.
Please don't attack.
Let's negotiate,
what could I do?
- It's too late, we don't want
to live in a sewer anymore.
This cove is not an open dump.
We are up to our
gills in this dirt.
I'm one mad, bad herring
who's putting an
end to all of this.
(clank)
- What was that?
(speaks gibberish)
What was that?
- Okay, no more chewing.
I'll go tell them your demands.
Not in a sewer, not an
open dump, up to our gills
and they're mad.
- Fix the cable and get those
crazy fish out of the water,
no matter what.
If they don't stop
causing havoc
- Hey.
- we're going to
lose the entire cove.
Get the big net.
- Hey.
Hey!
- Hey, who are you?
- Hold on.
Okay, listen to me.
If people stop
polluting the sea,
they'll let the divers
down to fix everything.
- They?
- The herrings.
(officers laugh)
Stop that, (mumbles).
They don't want
to live in a stew.
This cove is no open dump.
They are up to their gill, gill,
you'll be in the guillotine
if you don't agree.
- You hear this?
Get the kid out of here.
- Stop.
The herrings die, the
sea dies, the world dies
and Simon moves away.
- Crank the shank.
Crank the shank.
- Hey, what's in the bottle?
(playful music)
Hey kid, hey kid, come back.
(grunts) Why does
this always happen?
(screams)
(splash)
(herrings chatter)
- They will catch
you in their net
and make you into
soup and fish tacos.
- Oh no, tell them we'll
surrender, we'll surrender.
- No time, the net is coming.
Help us super fur ball.
We don't want to
end up in a soup
or a casserole.
Help, help!
- Here we go.
Crank, crank, crank.
(boat creaks)
(herrings scream)
(Emilia grunts)
(boat creaks)
(boat horn blares)
(captain gasps)
(uplifting music)
(herrings cheer)
- Uh, so, I guess the
power cable could be, uh.
- Yeah, I guess we
could fix it now, right?
- I could do it.
- All right, get
down there already.
The power shortage
was caused by toxins
seeping into the water,
corroding the cable.
It's a serious
environmental crime.
- I can't comment on the
pending charges at this point.
We are cooperating
with investigators
but environmental industries
are very dear to me, as well.
For future generations.
I have a family and a child.
(ding)
- The power is back in and the
citizens can sigh in relief.
But the fish population
has weakened.
Herrings have
disappeared all together.
The state fishery says the
situation will return to normal
with time.
- Why are you still growling?
Didn't I do what you
guys wanted me to do?
Simon!
- Hi.
- So cool you didn't
have to move after all.
- Yeah.
That was quite a hullaballoo
at the cove last night.
(old west music)
- Nesting places to
many species of birds.
- That's why reeds are the
vital part of the ecosystem
of our water bodies.
The end.
(students clap)
- Thank you, very nice.
Next up, we have Simon and
the islands on the Baltic Sea.
(Greasy laughs)
(students laugh)
(playful music)
- [Giant Guinea Pig] If you're
good as plain old Emilia,
you're good as super fur ball.
(uplifting music)
- [Teacher] Emilia,
what are you doing?
- We did our projects together.
I helped Simon and
Simon helped me.
- Oh look, how cute.
- Sh, we're in the middle
of our presentation.
- Sh, who do you
think you're shushing?
- You, shut up Greasy Antero.
- Are you pals with him?
- No, not a pal, a
friend, a best friend.
Well then, islands,
by Simon and Emilia.
- Aw, look at these love birds.
So cute.
- Sh, will you be quiet?
I want to hear what Emilia
and Simon have to say.
- Antero, be nice, just like
you were on TV last night.
(students laugh)
- Simon.
- I was going to pack it in
but then I thought, weed
based food will soon catch on.
(laughs)
Oh, as an appetizer, I
recommend frog spawn.
It's protein for
the whole family.
Three dollars only.
Enjoy.
Oh, hey Emilia.
And here you go.
- Tada!
(uplifting music)
This should be clean
by next spring.
- Hi Emilia.
- Hi Antero.
- This is going to be
wonderful, super fur ball.
Thank you.
And thank you for
this temporary home.
Love how the scenery opens up.
Where did you put
the rest of my gang?
- Well, I had help
from my friends.
(uplifting music)
(playful music)
- Thanks.
(ball thunders)
- Run Simon!
- Can't be bothered.
This is not my thing.
(everyone claps)
(smooth music)
(singing in foreign language)